[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 2: Question on how would
you have different things like
object.observe and
mutation observers Good question.
>> Jafar Husain: Well I mean there's
a galaxy of different callback APIs and
the browser's only adding more of them.
In fact, we can actually play
around with object observe and
wrap it as an observable.
There is a very cool
example of doing just that.
What's the fastest way to get this done?
I've actually got an example up on
GitHub of using object observe and
observable, sorry, first of all,
who's familiar with object observe?
>> Jafar Husain: Not many people.
So there's a feature coming in
JavaScript 7 Were you can walk up to
any JavaScript object and observe to
see if its properties have changed.
So you can get a call back if somebody
changes a property on a JavaScript object
and I believe I actually have it just
happen to be running it right now
in Chrome so because
I've got my future features,
I forget what exactly it's called.
Expanded web features,
flag turned on in Chrome because I
like to play around with these things.
So if I go to a console we can find
out if I've actually got this,
cuz it's a cool API to
try out objects.observe.
So you can see it's already
in Chrome If you go and
load your chrome you'll
turn on a particular flag.
I think it's right here, experiments.
No not in there.
We can Google it.
No?
I believe it's under about:flags.
So if you go about:flags in Chrome.
Here we go.
Enable experimental web platform features.
So for
those of you who can't see that out there,
enable experimental web platform features.
I believe that is the one.
So if you enable that and
restart your Chrome.
And you start typing in console,
you should be able to see object.observe.
And we can check out how
object.observe works.
>> Jafar Husain: I'm
gonna create an object.
>> Jafar Husain: Does
everybody see the code I just,
I'm going to bump this font size up.
Everybody see the code I just wrote there?
So I created a plain old object.
I gave it a single property, and
then I called Object.observe and
I passed in the object and
I passed in an event handler
that is going to fire whenever we
change any properties on that object.
That makes sense?
So let's try it.
I'm gonna go,
x.name= "Ben." And it worked..
See the console?
We wrote out and
we actually get a list of changes and
notice it says that name changed.
It has the old value which is "Jim." And
I believe the object, yeah is basically,
the object is just the, the object
that we passed in the object observe.
So it gives us the old value and
it tells us which property changed.
So that's kind of cool, right?
>> Speaker 2: Until you eat up all your
memory with a bunch of observers, yeah.
>> Jafar Husain: Well it could definitely
be memory intensive to use object observe,
and that is actually one of
the criticisms of object observe.
So this is great for listening to one
property,but what if you have a property
with an object inside of it and it's got
a property with an object inside it, and
it's got a property with
an object inside of it?
You can't just listen at the top
level with object observe you have
to listen to every single
object underneath and that, so
if you want to listen to a path
changing a series of properties and
then a change to any of those series of
properties you need to recursively add
object observe and
yes that does turn out to be expensive.
Some MVC frameworks like this style
of synchronizing models and views and
so they want to use object observe
right but there is probably
a fair criticism to say this is perhaps
a heavy way of doing object observation.
And some other MVC frameworks for example
use a different approach which is diffing.
Angular uses a diffing approach.
As soon as an event handler happens.
It takes a look at an old copy of
the model and a new copy of the model.
And then goes through and compares them.
That's very different than listening for
fine grain changes.
Well to be fair object
observe is somewhat course.
Because if I change 15
properties all at once.
It will only call that callback once.
And it will list in the array all of
the properties that have changed.
But that still doesn't solve the problem
of multiple event handlers at every level
of your object observe.
I have an example online of using
observable to do just that.
So, it allows you to observe a path,
and it uses observable,
and it's actually a pretty
cool code sample.
But under the hood, basically what
it does, is it uses switch latest.
So let's say I set an object
instead of my name Jim.
Is this big enough for
folks at home to see, you think.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay.
So first of all how would I unobserved.
Remember async APIs is usually have
some way of saying no I don't want
more data anymore.
Anymore.
Well there's a handy [LAUGH]
Object.unobserve method.
>> Jafar Husain: Now unfortunately,
I can no longer unobserve this,
because I didn't capture this handler.
So I can't even pass it back to unobserve,
which is a great example of why
that's a very annoying API, right, that
this whole idea of like, I'm going to pass
a handler, but I gotta remember
the handler, cuz I gotta pass it back.
It's the same as add that listener,
or remove that listener.
So, the question was how would I wrap
object observe as an observable, right?
So, why don't we just do that?
Because I hate using the object
observed unobserved API,
I find those API's very annoying because
what I really like to use is observable,
because I like to use things like take and
til or take one for example.
Let's say I want to listen for
the next change to an object, right?
One of the operators we
didn't write right here and
I think we should write, is take.
Take, right?
We never wrote take and we tried out
take in our exercises very briefly and
what it does take says right
if she's the take observable.
And let's say she has a number,
which is the maximum number
of items she's gonna take.
If I on next her one, two, and three, by
the time I get, if her maximum number is
three, she's gonna say to him,
on completed after three.
And more importantly, you're also gonna
dispose of my subscription, right?
So you're gonna say to me,
I don't want anymore data.
I've got all the data I need.
And you're gonna say to him, on completed.
So let's write that function.
>> Jafar Husain: So some of these
implementations are a little more
complicated to do fully correctly, but
I'm cheating a little bit here
to give you the overall idea.
There's a couple of things
to call your attention to.
For example, when you call an onNext on
an observer, if you're an observable and
you call an observers onNext.
It could throw.
And so actually to be fully correct,
you should be trying and
catching because if somebody is observe,
if I call onNext on you and
you throw, right, I should then
turn around and call onAir, right?
I should be trapping errors
because if nobody's around,
with it with async code, your code
might not be on the stack at all.
So you can't just let a throw on
error propagate up with throw.
It's observable's job to catch errors,
and then push them with onError, right?
So if I'm being fully correct,
I would do that.
We just don't have time and
it would complicate the code.
So we'll just focus on take.
So what does take have to do?
Take has to return an observable that
only on nexts a certain number of items.
So the first thing we do, obviously
is we got to return an observable.
>> Jafar Husain: And
to create an observable,
all we have to do is
define a forEach function.
So what's this observable gonna do?
What's it gonna do when
you forEach over it?
Well I'm gonna do this because we
need to make sure to always capture
the source observable.
That's what this line of code does right.
When you call take on observable, that
take observable needs to still have access
to the source so that it can call forEach
on me so that I can send it data.
So we've trapped a reference to
the source observable and we're creating
the take observable So
just like every other example.
>> Jafar Husain: Well,
almost like every other example.
In the previous example, we did this.
I'm actually gonna start doing something
that I know is wrong just to demonstrate
what's going on.
So we're gonna pass in.
We're gonna call forEach on the source,
right?
That's the very first thing.
If he forEachs her, she has to forEach me.
So, we're going to call
forEach on the source.
We're going to pass in the onNext handler.
And when it receives a value,
what's going to happen?
Well, notice take needs a counter.
We need to keep a counter inside of
the take observable because if after we've
delivered a certain number on next,
We want to stop delivering on next, right?
We want to say on completed.
So we're going to kick declare
a counter to keep track
of how many on next we've delivered
inside of the take observable
how many on next methods we call and
we'll initialize it to zero.
So when an onNext comes through, well we
wanna first check to see if the counter.
What I'm actually gonna do is I'm
actually gonna forward on the onNext.
>> Jafar Husain: So
now she's onNexting him.
Right.
She's for reaching me I'm onNext to
her and she's on next to him and
incrementing a counter.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay, but what happens
if the counter gets up to the number?
What she would like to do is
say to me no more data, right?
She wants to say never send me another
value because I don't want to send him any
more values he only asked for three.
So I'm not listening to how she
going to say to me no more data.
How do you stop listening for items that
you get out of miserable when you call for
each on it.
>> Speaker 3: Unsubscribe.
>> Jafar Husain: Unsubscribe did I hear?
Yeah.
How do you unsubscribe?
>> Speaker 3: You dispose.
>> Jafar Husain: You dispose
of the subscription.
Now we see that she's actually just
returning my subscription to you.
But that's not good enough now.
She needs to hold onto that subscription,
so that she can call dispose on it.
So we're gonna assign
the subscription to a variable.
>> Jafar Husain: And she's still gonna
return that subscription object.
But she will call subscription.dispose
as soon as that number of on next she's
delivered, gets up to her maximum number.
So she'll tell me,
no more data please, as soon as I give her
in this case maybe three on next, right?
And what else does she have to do?
I'm gonna add the typical boilerplate
which is that you're always forwarding
along the on air in the on
completion messages.
All right.
>> Jafar Husain: So
we forward along errors so
if I tell her error she tells him error,
and we forward along completions.
But what does she have to do?
What's the last missing piece here?
So let's say she's
a take three observable,
she's only going to take three.
You call for each on her,
right do me a favor for each.
She calls forEach on me.
>> Speaker 4: forEach.
>> Jafar Husain: [LAUGH] I say onNext one.
Right?
You're a take three.
The maximum you take is three.
I call onNext one.
>> Speaker 4: onNext one.
>> Jafar Husain: onNext two.
>> Speaker 4: onNext two.
>> Jafar Husain: onNext three.
>> Speaker 4: onNext three.
>> Jafar Husain: onNext four.
Well, after the onNext three,
what are you supposed to say to him?
>> Speaker 4: Oncomplete.
>> Jafar Husain: Yes and you have to tell
me don't give me any more data right.
So we've only done one of those things
here we've got the section of code
which says.
You tell me don't give me any more data.
What's the last piece that we have
to do that we haven't done here.
All right, she has to tell you
something very explicitly sorry?
>> Speaker 4: Dispose.
>> Jafar Husain: No that we did right
here,that's you saying no more data.
>> Speaker 5: You have to call onComplete.
>> Jafar Husain: Right,
how are you gonna tell him that it's done?
You have to call onCompleted.
So if the counter gets up to that number,
right,
you need to tell him that no
more data's ever coming ever.
And as soon as she calls
subscription.dispose
I'm not gonna say onAir or onCompleted.
As soon as you dispose of a subscription,
you're never getting another
message from me again.
And so now, we have take